Let's look at them out of ordinary situations you might come up with for the collections framework.
I want to start out by talking about views as they pertain to collections, views of themselves, collections
backed by the originating collection passed as a parameter to the method.
Modifying a view in turn modifies the collection that backs the view, although there are limitations
on the modifications which can be made.
It's looking at this table on screen, you can see a list of methods which return views, so starting
out with a right, we've got a method as list returns, a list that basically returns a fixed list backed
by a specified array.
If it has been passed next abstract map, the method is entry set.
Return type is set.
The returns are set via the mappings contained in the map.
We've also got key set for abstract map, which is also a set and returns a set of the keys contained
in this map.
We've also got Vali's for Abstract Map Turntablism set and it returns a collection of the values contained
in the map.
If you looking at least we've got the method sublist, which returns a list and contains the elements
from the index, from index inclusive to index to index exclusive.
Never said the method is to simply set the terms are set and return to reverse order few of the elements
contained in the set.
Also for couple set, we've got an overloaded method headset there.
The terms are set in both scenarios, the terms of view of the portion of the set whose elements are
strictly less than two element, which has passed as a parameter.
If the inclusive overload is used, includes two elements, if true, containing with a couple set,
we've got a subset which is also overloaded, as you can see there, and that returns are set in terms
of view of the portion of this set whose limits range from from element inclusive to two element exclusive.
And if the inclusive overload is used from element in to element based on values of inclusive parameters.
The last one never set.
You've got the tower set method, which is also overloaded button topics is set.
This returns a view of the portion of this set whose elements are greater than or equal to from element.
And if the inclusive overloads used includes two element, if true only.
So let's explore some of these views in code so that you can recognize compilation and execution errors
from simple code that might form part of an exam question.
They need to create a new class in our collections project.
We'll call this class collection Fuze.
So looking at this class, we've got two methods.
The first method here do stuff with list, this performs various operations analyst parts to it as a
parameter is using replace all their sort.
Using Sublist Navasota, also an ad as well as clear.
And we've also got our main method here.
This creates sublist views first using an array of string and then an array list of string, and then
it likes to do stuff with sublist method.
They could save a calling that a few times.
Let's run this.
So they have put.
Now you to notice that seven operations filed on the sublist view backed by the array of string.
Now, this is because an array is a fixed size.
Any operation that affects the size will throw an unsupported operation exception such as add, remove,
clear.
Now, these operations were successful on the sublist, the view backed by the array list of string.
So looking at an initialization method for the Israelis to string.
Or rather, the code that initialized list of string that's stand here is our list being defined are
being set up online, 76 changed that to the following.
They can say we're using out of there now the code compiles, but when I run this.
We've actually got an exception, as you can see there.
Looking at the code.
It's crushing online 84 when we're calling our do stuff with Sublist.
And the reason for this is because I created established a view of an immutable collection, any change
I try to make to the sublist, the view would throw an unsupported operation exception.
And that's what's happening here.
I'm going to replace that money that we use Lyster of their.
Replace it with a new frailest creation, as we're doing there now on line seventy six.
Now, when we run this again.
The car is now working.
When reviewing an exam question, I always look out for the methods that return immutable collections
if they aren't used in a constructor, you have a quick and easy path out of the question.
If any code attempts to change the collection or sub collection derived from it is changed, the answer
is the collection cannot be modified and or and unsupported.
Operation exception will be thrown.
Right.
So let's see in the video here next, I'm going to present you with a few quiz questions specific to
the collections framework and then I'll see you in the video following where I'm going to be discussing
two interfaces that support sorting of collections, the comparator and comparable interfaces.
See you in the next video.